Data 200 **Study guide for Exam 2:**
This list is created to help you study for the exam. 
*Disclaimer:* The topics listed here are fully comprehensive of the material
Covered in class. You should refer to the course pack and the notes posted on GitHub, 
as they form the main source material. Keep in mind the course pack may include more information
than what is covered in class. (You are responsible from what is covered in class)


Topic 5: Relational databases
Define a relational database management system. How is it different than the tabular model
in terms of structure, constraints, and operations?
What is a primary key? What is a foreign key?
What are the columns called in a relational database table? What are the rows called?
What is functional dependency? Show functional dependency in a given relational database.
Understand the three types of relationships: one-to-one, one-to-many, and many-to-many.
What is a linking table?

Topic 6: SQL
What does sql stand for? What is its purpose?
Similarities between SQL and Pandas? In what situation is SQL more beneficial than Pandas?
Be comfortable with SQL syntax and common SQL statements, keywords, clauses, functions:
SELECT statement
ORDER BY and DISTINCT keywords
WHERE clauses with the IS, OR, and AND operators
MAX, MIN and COUNT functions
LIKE operator and wildcards
BETWEEN and IN operators
GROUP BY and HAVING statements
Table and column aliasing using AS
COUNT() function, e.g., difference between COUNT(*) and COUNT(field)
Comments (/*…*/ and --)
SQL order of operations
How are missing values handled?
Calculated fields
String concatenation (|| are used in SQLite)
How are subqueries used?
Difference between WHERE and HAVING
SUBSTRING() function

Topic 7: Joins
Overview of differences between inner join, left join, right join, and full outer join
SQL commands to perform the difference types of joins:
INNER JOIN
LEFT JOIN
RIGHT JOIN
OUTER JOIN
Difference between ON and USING
There is no real need for both a left and right join (why?)
How to emulate an outer join using UNION (many DBMS don’t have an outer join)
Using a subquery combined with IN
Given a relational database, write a query with join statements that returns a desired table.

