Data 200 **Study guide for Exam 1:**
This list is created to help you study for exam 1. 
*Important:* The topics listed here may not be fully comprehensive. You should refer to
the course pack and the notes posted on GitHub, as they form the main source material.

Topic 1: Data Systems
What are data systems?
Who is data system client, resource owners, data system provider?
Where can data be stored?
What is an API? Why is it used?
What are most widely used data forms?
What are the three main characteristics describing a data model? Explain each and
identify for a given data model.
What are three main data models?
What is the goal in constructing a data system?

Topic 2: Numpy
What is numpy? Why is it used?
What is vectorization? Why is it used?
How is numpy loaded and called?
Create a numpy array object (1,2,or 3d) with given data.  
Access individual element(s) in a numpy object.
Reshape an array.
Return the shape of an array.
Make operations on a numpy array using vectorization.
Calculate basic statistics on data stored as numpy array.
Check if a numpy array contains missing values. Be able to handle them.
What is broadcasting? Why is it used?
Identify if a an operation is possible between two elements using broadcasting.

Topic 3: Files and Data
Identify file type from a given file extension.
Find a path to a file/folder given a file structure. 
Read a text file in python.
Read text files using with open() as.
Compare read() readline() readlines(). Be able to use either of them to read a text file.
Use strip(), split() when necessary.
Compare csv and json files.
Write and read a json file.
What is tidy data? What are its assumptions? 
Identify if a spreadsheet is tidy data or not. Identify what assumption is violated given untidy data.

Topic 4: Pandas
Create a pandas series from given data.
Create a pandas dataframe from a dictionary of lists.
Read and write a csv file using pandas.
Access individual element(s) in a pandas object.
Make operations on a pandas object.
Subset a dataframe using isin().
Return number of rows and columns of a pandas dataframe.
Identify the level (units) of data given a dataframe.
Return the unique values and their counts of a categorical column in a pandas dataframe.
Aggregate a dataframe using agg()
Aggregate a dataframe on a given level using groupby()
Sort values in a dataframe.
Add and delete columns/rows in a dataframe.
Append two dataframes with same columns, different rows.
Merge two dataframes based on index, or using a common key variable.
Perform a left, right, and inner join. Explain when to use one over the other.
Handle missing data in a pandas dataframe.
What are wide-form and long-form of data?
What is melt? What is pivot?
Reshape data into tidy form using melt or pivot when necessary.

